The reason your Instagram posts aren't
getting as many views as you want is
because your retention graph looks like
this. According to Adam Mosseri, the
head of Instagram, there are two
different forms of engagement that
determine how many views your post gets.
And the first one varies depending on
where your audience is going to be
coming from. If your post gets a lot of
likes, then the Instagram algorithm will
push your post out to more existing
followers. If your post gets a lot of
shares, then the Instagram algorithm
will push it out to more non-followers.
That is the overall best form of
engagement, either a like or a share,
depending on which kind of person you're
trying to reach. But the second most
important form of engagement, whether
you're trying to reach followers or
non-followers, is viewer retention.
Basically, how long are people watching
your videos? Sure, a lot of people might
stop their scroll for just a second
because you had a strong hook, but are
they actually watching to the end? If
you can increase the retention on your
Reels, I guarantee you will get more
views. And so in today's episode, I'm
going to share with you the exact
formula that I used to increase the
retention on my videos. And if this is
the sort of thing that you want more of,
you want more tips, strategies, and
ideas for growing your small business on
social media, hit that subscribe button
because every single week here on this
podcast, that's exactly what I put out.
But before we even get into the formula
for today's episode, I have good news
for you. And that is that increasing
retention has nothing to do with camera
quality. It has nothing to do with
hashtags. It has nothing to do with
finding the latest trending audio. I
would even argue that it has very little
to do with the topic of the video
itself. Instead, increasing your video's
retention is all about one thing, and
that's curiosity. If you can create more
curiosity, not just in your hooks, but
throughout your entire video, that is
how you'll get people to stick around.
And ultimately, creating this high
curiosity content that keeps people
watching it increases retention and it's
borderline addictive uses the following
formula that I'm going to call the three
S's. The first S is structure. The
second S is psychology, which I know
starts with a P, but it sounds like an
S, so we'll just go with it. And the
third S is swaps. And all this matters
because while yes, ultimately a like and
a share is the top dog in terms of
engagement, people are really stingy
with their engagement nowadays. People
are liking videos so much less than ever
before. It used to be that if you saw a
small business that you supported, or
you saw one of your friends or family
members pop up on your social media
feed, you would just like it. There was
even such thing called a courtesy like,
which is where you would give someone a
like, even if you didn't necessarily
enjoy their content, but just because
you supported the person. But now,
because we're sifting through so much
crap, so much slop, so many ads, so much
AI-generated content, that we're a lot
less likely to just instantly like
whatever we see. Also, because platforms
like Instagram are showing other people
what posts you like, which in case you
didn't know that was a thing, yes,
that's a thing. Instagram will put your
little face down in the bottom left
corner, or it will say liked by and your
name if someone who follows you sees a
post that you have already liked, and so
likes are a lot more public. Also, we're
just getting overwhelmed with more and
more and more and more content every
single day, and so our likes feel like
they matter a lot less, and we are thus
holding on to them a lot more tightly.
And so, if people are getting less
likes, if they're getting less shares,
if they're getting less interactive
engagement, it is the passive engagement
of consumption, or to say it another
way, it's people just watching your dang
video that is really making a difference
in the Instagram algorithm. Hey, I just
wanted to say thank you so much for
helping me hit 100K subscribers on this
channel. If you're watching right now
and you're not already subscribed, make
sure to hit that subscribe button
because every single week we put out
helpful tips, ideas, and strategies for
helping you grow your small business on
Instagram. But, I told y'all that when
we hit 100K, we would do a little
giveaway for anyone who commented on one
of the old videos. So, I've got
everyone's name here who commented, and
the winner is none other than
congratulations to Emma. Emma has won a
free one-on-one coaching call with me.
Thank you so much, Emma. And you know
what? Let's do another one-on-one
coaching call giveaway just to celebrate
hitting 100k. If you like and comment on
this YouTube video, you'll be entered in
to win and I'll randomly pick one of you
to win a one-on-one coaching call with
me in the future. Thank you so much
again, and we'll get back to the video.
And so, while implementing the three S's
can definitely help you get more likes,
comments, saves, and shares, even if you
get zero extra engagement, your videos
will get more views because of their
retention. So, let's get into it. The
first layer, or the first S in this
formula, is structure. You might have
assumed that one of the three S's would
be storytelling, and I think that
storytelling is a powerful way to
increase retention. Ultimately, humans
are 22 times more likely to remember a
story than a fact, and it is stories
that allow people to connect with us on
a deeper level and relate to us and
trust us more. It is storytelling that
will make your content stick in people's
minds. However, traditional storytelling
is just not something that we have time
for in short-form content. You can tell
a story on a podcast or a YouTube video
or even an Instagram live, but you just
don't have time to tell a traditional
story on your Instagram Reels. And I
think that's great news because as
someone who has studied storytelling for
almost the last decade, there can be a
lot that goes into a great story. Think
of like the traditional storytelling arc
and the conflict and the resolution and
the hero's journey and all of that. And
I think we can oftentimes overcomplicate
or overthink our storytelling, and of
course, we all overthink and
overcomplicate our Reels when you don't
have to incorporate all of those
elements into your short-form Reels on
Instagram. Instead, we're not even
necessarily going to be telling short
stories, we're just going to be opening
the door to create curiosity and then
closing the door. Opening and closing
over and over again. And it is these
short loops, if you will, that keep
people watching your video. Basically,
if you You to increase your video's
retention, you need a clear setup so
that people know where we're going or at
least they think they know where we're
going and then you need a better than
expected payoff. If the payoff is boring
or too expected or confusing or even
just neutral, people will scroll away
and they will lose interest. If the
payoff is unexpected but it makes sense,
then they stay. But even better, if the
payoff is unexpected and it creates a
little bit more curiosity, it leaves
them saying, "Wait, what?" Then they're
even more likely to stay. Here's the
five-step process that you can use to
building out what we just talked about.
Number one, select a topic that you want
to create your reel about. And this
should not be a vague or general topic
like fitness. This should instead be
something specific. For our example,
let's do learning to snowboard. Then
step two, I want you to brain dump every
possible point that you could teach
about said topic. So if I'm brain
dumping a bunch of points about learning
to snowboard, I would say get a coach,
falling is a good thing, you should
always wear a helmet, uh don't have your
friend teach you. I would say start with
rental gear, the mountain where you
learn to snowboard doesn't really make
much of a difference. I would say that
you should learn to skate on your
snowboard before you learn to ride your
snowboard. I would say you shouldn't
wear those dumb butt pads to look like a
turtle. And I could probably think of
more but I'll stop for now. Then step
three, I want you to circle the three
most non-obvious points. So if I'm going
through that list I just made, I would
say the three most non-obvious points
are that number one, falling is good,
number two, you shouldn't have a friend
teach you, and number three, don't wear
the dumb butt pads because it seems like
everyone who's learning to snowboard
nowadays is wearing those dumb pads.
Then once you have those three selected,
step four is to reverse engineer the
setup that is necessary for those points
to make sense. Since these were the
three most non-obvious takeaways, maybe
the setup is going to be what most
people think, which is probably the
opposite. And I want to be clear, we're
not even really scripting the reel yet,
we're just kind of coming up with the
outline. So for the point that falling
is good, the setup might be that most
people are scared to fall or that
throughout our whole lives we've been
taught that falling is failing. For the
point that you shouldn't have your
friends teach you, the setup could be
that most people are trying to save
money or most people just have their
friends teach them or most people think
that, "Hey, if my friend's been
snowboarding for a while, they could
probably teach me to do it." And then
for the point about those dumb butt
pads, the setup might be that they look
cute or that you're seeing everyone
wearing them or that they might make you
feel protected, but in actuality they're
creating this like false sense of
security, they're creating bad habits,
and they're limiting your mobility.
Then, step five, the final step, is to
stack these three things in order of
either ascending complexity, so each one
is getting more and more complex, or
ascending surprisingness,
or order them in terms of ascending
importance, so they're getting more
important with each one. And this can be
done whether you're teaching a lesson,
giving tips, sharing ideas, telling a
story, or whatever it may be, you're
just constantly creating these little
loops where you're opening the door and
closing the door. So, if I were to put
all this together into one succinct
video, it would sound something like
this. Don't try snowboarding until you
watch this video because here's what you
need to know. Number one, I don't care
what you wear, just don't wear those
dumb butt pads. They make you feel
protected, but they look dumb, they
limit your mobility, and they create bad
habits. Number two, your friends are not
coaches. Do not have your friends try to
teach you to snowboard unless you want
to ruin that friendship and have a
horrible day. And number three, falling
is a good thing. Falling is not failing,
it's how you learn. And so, the more you
fall, the faster you will get better at
snowboarding. Now, there were some
elements of that script that definitely
come from the other two S's, so let's
get into the next one. Back in 2016,
when I started my first real online
business, I remember that my head was
filled with so many what ifs. What if no
one buys this? What if I'm an impostor?
What if there's no market? What if I
can't sell? What if what if what if what
if this is all just a big waste of time
and I'm just banging my head against the
wall. But what I wish someone told me
back then is just like you can imagine
all the negative what ifs, there are
just as many, if not more, positive what
ifs. What if this works out? What if
this is my breakthrough? What if this is
what sets me financially free? And
thanks to one of today's sponsors,
Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world,
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks, from
inventory to payments to analytics, all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier, and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those what
ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f dot com forward slash
t r i b e. The second layer in
increasing retention and making your
Reels borderline addictive is
psychology. And yes, like I said
earlier, I know psychology starts with a
p, but it sounds like an s, so let's
just go with it. I think one of the
biggest mistakes that everyone who's
trying to grow on social media makes is
they focus on the wrong A. The A that
they do focus on is the algorithm, and
the A that they should focus on is the
audience. The audience is always so much
more important than the algorithm. Yes,
algorithms change every day, and yes, it
is true that the algorithm is what
decides who sees your post or how many
people see your post. But, what so many
people miss is that it is the audience
that dictates the algorithm. If it was
the other way around, if it was the
algorithm making all of the decisions,
then we would not enjoy being on any of
these platforms. We would not be
addicted as a society to our phone if
these algorithms were trying to control
the narrative and show us things that
they want us to see. Instead, yes, they
can kind of tweak and massage things.
I'm not saying that's not going on, but
more often than not, the posts that
we're seeing are more or less the posts
that we want to see, the posts that we
will find engaging, the posts that we
will find interactive, the posts that we
want to see. And so, shifting gears from
consumer hat into creator hat, as you
are creating content, forget about the
damn algorithms and focus on your
audience. It is ultimately their
psychology. It's what's going on in
their mind that is going to cause them
to stick around on your video, stop
their scroll in the first place, and
then engage with your video. And when
I'm thinking about the psychology of my
audience, there's four key elements that
I try to keep in mind.
The first one is the hook. Now, the hook
is something that you have heard a
million tips and ideas about. I did an
entire episode just a few weeks ago
about coming up with better hooks, so I
definitely recommend checking that out
if you haven't already. I would also
argue that the hook is the most
important part of your video because if
they don't start watching it, they will
never keep watching it. But, something
that I mentioned in that video and
something that I think is overlooked in
general when we talk about hooks is that
the visual matters more than the words.
And when I say words, that's either
words that are being said or text
written on the screen. The visual always
matters so much more because, yes, a
picture's worth a thousand words, but
also our brains are going to be able to
analyze and scan and comprehend and
understand and be engaged or be bored by
a video because of the the few frames of
the visual before we can actually
process what is being said. In fact, the
human brain processes images 60,000
times faster than it processes words.
According to some studies, the brain can
recognize and interpret images in as
little as 13 milliseconds. And so, when
your reel starts with a boring visual or
a visual that doesn't relate to what
you're actually going to be talking
about, well, then people are going to
interpret that and scroll away before
you can even finish saying half of your
eloquently written hook. And so, when
you're planning the visual of those
first few seconds or even just those
first few frames in your video, number
one area to ask yourself, is this visual
related to what I'm talking about? If
you're making a video about opening
Pokémon card packs, there needs to be a
Pokémon card pack in the first few
frames. If you're making a video about
learning to snowboard, there needs to be
someone learning to snowboard within
those first few seconds. If you're
making a recipe video, we need to be
able to see the finished product, what
we're going to be making, in those first
few frames. Not you smiling looking at
the camera. Although, I will say having
a human face is better than not, so if
you can include your face, if you can be
smiling at the camera, awesome. But if
that's the only thing, then there's no
way that it's really related to what the
rest of the reel is about. The second
thing to consider is color. Color grabs
attention. There's a reason why stop
signs are red. There's a reason why
caution tape is yellow. So, I want you
to pay attention to what colors are you
wearing? What color is the text that
you're using on screen? What color are
your props? What color is the
background? And be conscious about
curating different colors to elicit
different subconscious and emotional
responses. And then, the third thing I
want you to consider visually with your
hooks is the rule of three. The rule of
three is something that is commonly
known and talked about when it comes to
thumbnails on YouTube videos. And that
is that in each YouTube thumbnail, there
should be no more than three elements.
If you look at the thumbnail of this
video, there were no more than three
elements. More than three elements and
people get distracted. They don't know
where to look, and they oftentimes will
look where you don't want them to look,
or they'll just become overwhelmed,
confused, and it'll be too complicated.
So, maybe that means clearing off your
desk, or making your foreground a little
bit brighter, so that's where people's
focus stays, and then making your
background a little bit darker. Maybe it
means using cinematic mode or portrait
mode on your phone, so that the
background is blurry, and there aren't
all of those visible objects. A mistake
that I see people making all the time is
that they have a background visual,
that's one element, they have their face
on the camera, and they have a block of
text above their head that says some
sort of hook, and that hook is different
than the words that they're saying, and
they also have closed captions below
their mouth with what they're saying,
and then sometimes they'll even add in
like a prop or an emoji or a GIF or a
sticker or something like that in the
first few seconds. And so, that's five,
six, seven things all on the screen at
once. And instead, what I want you to
remember is that less is more when we're
talking about the visual of your hooks.
The second key to your audience's
psychology that I want you to keep in
mind is what I like to call the
curiosity gap. And learning how to craft
a perfect curiosity gap is something
that definitely takes time, and it takes
empathy. It takes knowing where your
audience is at, what they're struggling
with, what they know, and what they
don't know. Essentially, I want you to
think of a gap that exists between like
two cliffs. Like think about one of
those movie scenes where like there's an
earthquake and the world is splitting
apart and like the two main characters
are on opposite sides, right? That gap
between them, we're going to label that
as the curiosity gap. And your goal is
to motivate your audience to want to
jump across that gap. If there's too
much ambiguity or it's too vague, then
the curiosity gap becomes too large, and
people aren't going to be motivated to
make that jump, because they know that
even if they're an Olympic broad jumper,
they can't jump across that gap. And
this is usually the result of using too
vague or too vanilla or too generic of
language in your hooks. To go all the
way back to the snowboarding example
earlier, I said, "Don't try snowboarding
until you watch this video." If instead
my hook was just don't do this or don't
make these mistakes, the curiosity gap
would be too far and people wouldn't
keep watching because what are we
talking about? What am I telling you not
to do? What mistakes are we talking
about? Cake baking or snowboarding? On
the other end of the spectrum, you can
use too specific of language or you can
give away too much in your hook, thus
making the curiosity gap so small that
I'm not really motivated to make the
jump because I can see what's on the
other side. I already know what the
outcome is. need to make the jump. The
other cause of a curiosity gap that is
too small is using insider lingo or
using too big of vocabulary or using
terms and words that your audience just
doesn't know. This is what some people
will call the curse of knowledge and
it's basically that you are an expert,
you are obsessed with the thing that
you're posting about on Instagram and so
when it comes time to talking to
non-experts, your average follower who
is five or 10 or 40 steps behind you,
you forget where they're at or you
forget what they don't know. You can't
remember what it was like when you were
first getting started and so you use
these big terms, you use fancy textbook
style vocabulary and it confuses and
overwhelms your audience. Instead, we
have to find that sweet spot. We got to
find that Goldilocks zone where the
curiosity gap is not so small that
people are unmotivated or they're
confused and it's also not so broad that
they're like, what are we even talking
about? The third psychological key that
I want you to pay attention to is
anticipation. Creating anticipation in
your content gets people excited. It
raises their dopamine levels and there's
some ways that you can strategically do
that and all of these are relatively
easy and yet things that people rarely
if ever do. One is varying your video's
format or structure or style. I think
often times we can kind of fall into the
same exact formula every single time of
this is how I do my talking head reels.
This is how I do my B-roll reels. This
is just the style that I do. And while I
think that's great for consistency and I
think that that's great for
predictability for yourself, and like
just ease of workflow, I think that that
can get boring for your audience.
Similarly, sentence length. Oftentimes,
we stick with sentences that are the
same length. Every single sentence is
five words long, or every single
sentence is eight words long. Instead, I
want you to play around with it, because
there can be a real music in
incorporating shorter sentences,
sentences that have a punch, sentences
that really drive a message home, and
then sentences that might be a little
bit longer, a little bit wordier, and
they might kind of soothe the audience.
And then the final way that you can
generate anticipation is when you're
coming up with the topic or the thing
that you're going to talk about in your
Reels, think about the unexpected
outcome or the plot twist. Similar to
what we were talking about earlier with
the whole opening and closing doors
thing, if you can have unexpected
payoffs, that will create anticipation
not just in this video, but in every
video that you create. And people will
keep sticking around in your videos, it
will become a habit for them to stick
around because you never know how it's
going to end.
>> As someone who cooks about 95% of their
meals at home, and no, that's not an
exaggeration, usually the only meal that
Tay and I eat out each week is our sushi
Saturday. What we eat, what we prepare,
it matters a lot to us. And that's why
I'm so excited to introduce you to our
newest sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh
allows you to choose between more than
100 recipes every single week, including
cuisines from all around the world, and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are
high-protein recipes, which fires me up,
and it allows me to feel great because I
know that I'm eating wholesome
ingredients, like sustainably sourced
seafood and 100% antibiotic and
hormone-free chicken. And of course,
most important of all is how it tastes,
and let me tell you, it actually tastes
really good. This helps me be a better
business owner because I'm able to eat
meals that taste good and help me feel
satisfied. I don't have to spend as much
time thinking or prepping each meal, and
I can make sure that I'm hitting my
protein goals in the process. Go to
hellofresh.com/BYT10FM
to get 10 free meals plus a free
Zwilling knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. Speaking of that ending, that's
the final psychological key, the payoff.
There has to be something in it for
them. There has to be some sort of
reward. I remember a few years ago when
we were working with a dog trainer for
one of our dogs who has anxiety and he
was like, "You work for pay, right? You
work to make money, to put food on the
table. You work to provide for yourself
and your family, right? Well, dogs do
the same. Dogs are going to sit or lay
down or heel or listen because there's
some sort of payoff." And so this is
where with each post you create, I want
you to really ask yourself, is this
worth sharing? Is this going to be an
aha moment? Is this going to be a light
bulb? Is this truly going to be helpful
for people or is this just going to be
more noise added to the void? Is this
going to be so basic and so cookie
cutter that everyone already knows it or
is there an unexpected twist? Is there
some hot take that I have or some
unpopular opinion or just some other new
fresh idea that isn't just the same
thing that everyone else has been
hearing for the last 10, 15, 40, 300
years? Essentially, your hook is making
a promise in the minds of the viewers
and by the end of the content, that
promise needs to be paid off. And when
you do consistently pay off that promise
and provide that value, it creates kind
of like a Pavlovian response in your
audience. They learn to trust you and
they learn to seek out your videos,
search your videos and watch till the
end even if every single video you
create doesn't follow the exact 3S
formula that we've been talking about
today. Basically, as soon as your reel
pops up in someone's feed, they think to
themselves, "Oh, this is going to be
good. Oh, this is going to be funny. Oh,
this is going to be educational." And
when they have that thought, they're
more likely to stick around. The third
and final S in the 3S formula is swaps.
I'm a firm believer that if you could
just swap out a few words here or there,
change a couple minor things, maybe
reshoot a couple little clips, and swap
them out, you would get significantly
more engagement and retention. I don't
think there's necessarily something
wrong with you or your topic or your
audience. I think there's just a few
minor things that you might be missing
out on. And so, before you even get into
these seven different kinds of swaps, I
want you to remember that anything that
you've already posted in the past can be
modified, tweaked, refilmed, reshot, or
even just re-uploaded with a few minor
swaps, and it can perform better the
second time. And of course, that allows
you to do less work and have more and
better output. The first swap that I
want you to make is that I want you to
name your frameworks. For example, this
entire YouTube video, I am teaching you
three different ways that you can
increase your audience's retention. But,
because I called it the three S's,
that's more memorable. That's going to
stick with you a little bit longer. Just
like I called my framework for getting
your most viewed story ever the STD
formula, which by the way, if you do
want to get your most viewed Instagram
story ever, click I'll put it somewhere
on the screen, I'll put it in the
description, to watch the video about
the STD formula. Is it funny that it's
called STD? Yes. Is it also more
memorable because it's called STD? Yes.
I even came up with a name for this
point. It's called the mystify the
mundane swap. Basically, you're taking
your three tips or your formula or your
strategy, and you're giving it some sort
of a catchy name, a mnemonic device that
makes it stick in people's minds more.
The second thing that you should swap
out is weak language. People are more
likely to stick around, watch, and
engage with videos where the speaker is
confident, even bold or charismatic. If
you're wishy-washy and you're using weak
language, or you're justifying what
you're saying, or you're coming across
insecure in your content, people are not
going to stick around. Here's some
examples. Instead of saying, "I think,"
you could say, "I found."
Here's what works, or here's what
happens when instead of saying maybe you
could say try this, do this instead, or
start here. Instead of saying this
might, say this will, this fixes, or
this is how you Instead of saying just,
remove the word just completely. And the
same goes for the words kind of, sort
of, a little, maybe, hopefully, delete
them. The third swap to make is to use
their words instead of your words.
Oftentimes, again, because of the curse
of knowledge, we use specific words that
we think are going to resonate with
people. When instead we should be using
their words. I'll give you an example of
a mistake I made with regards to this
topic. For years, I offered a free
digital download that was your maximum
engagement checklist. And I was like,
oh, this is going to be awesome. It's
going to be a 10-step guide to making
sure people maximize their engagement on
their Instagram Reels. But after doing a
little bit more market research, after
polling people, and just listening to
the words they were saying, no one was
ever using the word engagement. Everyone
was talking about views. And they're
basically interchangeable because the
more engagement you get, the more views
you will get. If you're getting more
views, it's because you got more
engagement. You get the picture. And so,
we swapped out the title from maximum
engagement checklist to maximum views
checklist, and our downloads went
through the roof. It's the exact same
checklist. It's walking through the
exact same things, but one of them has a
different title. A title that it uses
the words of our ideal audience. By the
way, if you want to download that max
views checklist or the max engagement
checklist, same thing, same difference,
you can do so in the description down
below. The fourth swap that you can make
is using negative words instead of their
positive counterparts. So, instead of do
this before you hit the slopes this
winter, or try this, or three things to
keep in mind before you learn to
snowboard, you can say don't make these
three mistakes before you go
snowboarding, or don't try snowboarding
until you watch this video. A negative
word like don't, stop, avoid, lose,
cancel, stay away from is more likely to
grab attention and hold attention than
its positive counterpart. The fifth swap
that you can make to increase retention
is adding a hook not just at the
beginning, but throughout your video.
The same principles and strategies that
apply to the first few seconds can apply
to any point in your video. So, if I'm
halfway through a video giving you the
essential tips that you need to know
before you start snowboarding, and I say
something like, "But here's the thing
everyone misses." You kind of sit
forward in your seat. You lean forward
and you keep paying attention. If I say,
"And this is where things get
interesting." or "This is where everyone
messes up." it re-hooks you in and
re-grabs your attention. The sixth swap
that you can make in your videos is
adding more contrast. Do you want to
know what the most powerful word in
retention is? The most powerful word in
storytelling? It's the word but. Using
the word but introduces conflict, and
conflict holds attention. Here's a
practice that I want you to try. The
next time you write a script for one of
your Reels, see if you could add the
word therefore or but to the beginning
of every sentence. I'm not saying that
you actually need to say the word
therefore or but at the beginning of
each sentence, but as a practice, I want
you to see if you could theoretically
add the word therefore or but to every
sentence. And if you can, it's likely
going to be a very engaging script. If
your script is therefore therefore
therefore therefore, then it's not going
to be very engaging. Or if the words
therefore or but don't fit in the
beginning of sentences, then it's likely
going to be run-on sentences or
unnecessary exposition or it's just
going to be boring. And then the seventh
and final swap that you can make to
improve your retention is what's called
a hook swap. A hook swap is a video
strategy where you take an existing
viral clip or an existing viral video,
and you swap from their hook seamlessly
into your own content. This is a topic
that I've talked about a few times here
at Build Your Tribe, and it is something
that I have used time and time again,
especially when I'm making a Reel that
is selling something. Because
oftentimes, salesy reels are the ones
that don't perform as well. And so, by
using the hook swap strategy, I increase
the retention, the engagement, and the
views while selling at the same time.
Now, if you want an entire library of 40
of these hook swap videos, DM me on
Instagram with the word swap. s w a p
and my Instagram username is
brock11johnson, and I will send you that
entire library of 40 of these hook swap
videos completely for free. And then you
can swap them into the beginning of your
videos and help yourself get more views,
engagement, and retention. I hope you
learned something today. If you did, hit
that thumbs up button, and as always,
happy networking.